adding a `data` section (#4)
znicholls/pyam: doc/source/data.rst

temporal dimension of any scenario data was restricted to full years
represented as integer values.

Two additional use cases are currently supported by :class:`pyam` in development
mode (beta):

 - using representative sub-annual timesteps via the :code:`extra_cols` feature
   (see the section on `custom columns`_ in the :code:`data` table)

 - using continuous time via :class:`pandas.datetime`, replacing the name of
   the :code:`year` column by :code:`time`

Please reach out to the developers to get more information on this
ongoing work.

The :class:`IamDataFrame` class
-------------------------------

A :class:`pyam.IamDataFrame` instance is a wrapper for

> two :class:`pandas.DataFrame` instances (i.e., tables, read the `pandas docs`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
two :class:`pandas.DataFrame` instances (i.e., tables, see the `pandas docs`_
```

The :code:`data` table
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This table contains the timeseries data related to an ensemble of scenarios.
It is structured in *long format*, where each datapoint is one row. In contrast,
the standard IAMC-style format is in *wide format* (see the example above),
where each timeseries is one row and the timesteps are represented as columns.

While long-format tables have advantages for the internal implementation of many
:class:`pyam` functions, wide-format tables are more intuitive to users.
The method :meth:`timeseries() <pyam.IamDataFrame.timeseries>` converts between
the formats and returns a :class:`pandas.DataFrame` in wide format.
Exporting an :class:`IamDataFrame` to file using
:meth:`to_excel() <pyam.IamDataFrame.to_excel>` or
:meth:`to_csv() <pyam.IamDataFrame.to_csv>` also writes the data table
in wide format.

The standard columns
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The columns of the :code:`data` table are :code:`['model', 'scenario', 'region',
'unit', <time_format>, 'value']`, where :code:`time_format` is :code:`year`
when timesteps are given in years (as :class:`int`) or :code:`time` when time

> is represented on a continuous scale (as :class:`pandas.datetime`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is represented on a continuous scale (as :class:`pandas.datetime`).
```

.. _`custom columns`:

Custom columns of the :code:`data` table
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If an :class:`IamDataFrame` is initialised with columns that are neither in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an :class:`IamDataFrame` is initialised with columns that are not in the
```

> list above nor can be interpreted as time dimension (in wide format), these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
list above nor interpreted as belonging to the time dimension (in wide format), these
```

columns are included in the :code:`data` table as :code:`extra_cols`.

> This feature can be used, for example, to distinguish between multiple stylized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature can be used, for example, to distinguish between multiple
```

> climate model providing different values for the variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
climate models providing different values for the variable
```

> :code:`Temperature|Global Mean` derived from the emissions timeseries of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:code:`Temperature|Global Mean`
```

> scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.
```

.. warning::

>     Not all :class:`pyam` functions currently support the use with continuous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Not all :class:`pyam` functions currently support the continuous
```

>     time or custom columns of the :code:`data` table. Please reach out via the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    time or custom columns in a :code:`data` table. Please reach out via the 
```

>     mailing list or GitHub issues if you are not sure whether your use cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mailing list or GitHub issues if you are not sure whether your use case
```
